.Dd July 19, 2026
.Dt JG-SERVE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm jg-serve
.Nd serve static files from a directory over the local network
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl IPt
.Op Fl m Ar directory Ns Op : Ns Ar mount-point
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Ar root
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
starts an HTTP server to share files over the host's local network.
Files are served uncompressed and without caching,
ideal for serving across a local network,
but ill-suited for a production environment.
The intended use of this command is testing websites on mobile devices \
and running webapps that feature resources that must be served with their \
correct media-type,
.Pq e.g, JavaScript modules
and due to browser sandboxing,
cannot be loaded via the
.Sy file://
protocol.
.
.Pp
The server runs in the foreground until it receives a
.Dv SIGQUIT ,
.Dv SIGTSTP ,
.Dv SIGINT ,
or
.Dv SIGTERM
signal,
at which point it exits cleanly,
without an error code.
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.It Fl m , Fl -mount Ar directory Ns Op : Ns Ar mount-point
Mount a filesystem directory so its contents are accessible under the given
.Ar mount-point
.Po
which defaults to
.Ar directory Ap s
.Xr basename 1
if omitted
.Pc .
.Pp
For example,
to provide access to a globally-installed version of the Mocha test-runner:
.Bd -literal -offset 4m
.Ic eval Qq Pf $ Pq Nm jg Cm where Fl s Li chai mocha
.Nm jg Cm serve No \e
.D1 Fl -mount Qo Va $mocha Ns Pf : Li /libs/mocha Qc No \e
.D1 Fl -mount Qo Va $chai  Ns Pf : Li /libs/chai  Qc No \e
.D1 Pa ./browser-tests/
.Ed
.Pp
Here,
.Pa ./browser-tests/index.html
is assumed to contain script tags referencing the entry-points of each library
.Pq Note that the Pa /libs/ No directory need not exist on-disk \
for the Fl -mount Ap d No locations to work :
.Bd -literal -offset 4m
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/libs/mocha/mocha.css"/>
<script src="/libs/mocha/mocha.js"></script>
<script src="/libs/chai/chai.js"></script>
.Ed
.Pp
This option may be used multiple times,
once for each mounted directory.
If two mounted directories have the same
.Ar mount-point ,
or if the
.Ar directory
being mounted doesn't exist on-disk,
.Nm
prints an error message and quits prematurely with an exit code of 2.
.
.It Fl I , Fl -no-index
Do not create HTML file listings of directories.
Instead,
respond with a
.Dv 404
status code and a short error message,
.Dq File not found .
.Pp
The default behaviour is to display file listings as an HTML table,
with each row containing a file's type
.Pq as an icon ,
name,
size,
and modification time.
Only directories, symbolic links, and regular files are listed;
other
.Dq special
filetypes like sockets and FIFOs are excluded from the index.
Entries are listed alphabetically and case-sensitively \(`a\~la
.Li LC_COLLATE=C ,
with the exception that directories are grouped together at the top,
headed by a link to the parent directory
.Pq Dq \.\. .
.
.It Fl p , Fl -port Ar number
Port number to listen on.
Defaults to
.Li 1337 .
.
.It Fl P , Fl -print-post
Print the bodies of
.Dv POST
requests to standard output.
If output is to a terminal,
the posted data is shown underneath the request's HTTP headers,
with C0 and C1 control characters rendered as human-readable replacements
.Pq behaving identically to the Fl -trace No option in this regard .
.Pp
If output has been redirected though,
posted data is written unmodified to stdout,
and the server immediately exits without responding to the original request.
This ugly hack was added as a half-arsed way to transfer files from mobile \
without Bluetooth or uploading them to an intermediary file-hosting service.
This feature's crass UX is intended to motivate its author to rewrite
.Nm
properly,
with proper support for offloading files from mobile devices.
.
.It Fl t , Fl -trace
Print the HTTP headers of each request to standard output,
separated from one another by an empty line.
.Pp
If output is to a terminal,
C0 and C1 control characters are replaced by visible counterparts,
as though filtered through
.Dq Nm vis Fl bc .
.
.It Ar root
Path to a directory containing files to serve.
If this argument is omitted,
the current working directory is used instead.
.Pp
As a special use-case,
.Ar root
may be a standalone JavaScript file
.Pq indicated by a Li .js No or Li .mjs No extension
that runs in a generated HTML wrapper,
with DOM construction and resource loading entrusted to the script.
.El
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
command exits with one of the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It 0
The server was terminated cleanly by a
.Dv SIGQUIT ,
.Dv SIGTSTP ,
.Dv SIGINT ,
or
.Dv SIGTERM
signal,
or it finished writing the body of a
.Dv POST
request to a file if output was redirected.
.It 1
An uncaught and unexpected exception was raised,
probably by the Node.js runtime itself.
.It 2
An invalid
.Fl -mount
specification was encountered during initialisation.
Either the directory to be mounted didn't exist,
or the mount-point was already assigned by a previous
.Fl -mount
option.
.It 3
The
.Ar root
argument refers to a filesystem entity that either \
doesn't exist or isn't a directory.
.El
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh EXAMPLES
Serve files from a project subdirectory named
.Pa browser-tests
on port 8080:
.Dl Nm jg Cm serve Fl p Li 8080 Pa ./browser-tests
.Pp
Run a standalone JavaScript file as a webapp:
.Dl Nm jg Cm serve Fl -mount Qo Pf $ Po Nm jg Cm where Li alhadis.utils Pc \
 Ns Li /lib Ns Pf : utils Qc Pa example.mjs
.Bd -literal -offset 6n
// example.mjs
import {New} from "/utils/dom.mjs";
document.title = "Self-contained script example";
document.body.append(
	New("h1", {textContent: "Example webapp"}),
	New("p",  {textContent: "BYO scripts and styles and stuff."}),
);
.Ed
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr curl 1 ,
.Xr jg-browse 1 ,
.Xr jg-where 1 ,
.Xr jg-ws 1 ,
.Xr node 1
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command was hacked together during a return commute in late November 2017,
driven in large part by the revulsion its author heralded towards contemporary \
Node.js tooling.
Bits and pieces of functionality were added piecemeal over time,
and it wasn't until
.Xr jg-lint 1
was written that a wrapper for the two tools was written and \
a Git repository created,
brashly named after its author's initials.
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Copyright \(co 2017\(en2026
.An John Gardner Aq Mt gardnerjohng@gmail.com .
Freely released under the
.Lk http://opensource.org/licenses/ISC "ISC license" .
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh BUGS
Media types are hardcoded
.Pq see the Li getContentType() No function
and determined solely by file extension.
A more exhaustive and intelligent system should be used for identifying \
the content-type of served files.
.Pp
A dedicated facility for transferring files from the client to the host needs \
to be added; the current method of setting the
.Fl -print-post
switch and redirecting
.Nm Ap s
output to a file is plainly idiotic and unintuitive,
not to mention time-consuming: the
.Li multipart/form-data
payload that's written to the filesystem requires one to untangle its contents \
using a binary editor,
as the combination of
.Tn ASCII
and binary data makes splitting on boundary strings in JavaScript unfeasible.
A rewrite is already in the works on a detached branch at GitHub.
.Pp
The code for mapping requests to files and/or redirects is a confusing mess.
It's also inflexible;
a configurable mechanism for URL routing should be provided.
.Pp
JavaScript files used as entry-points should have a predefined
.Vt argv
global populated by the URL's query variables.
