.Dd July 19, 2026
.Dt JG 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm jg
.Nd angry bastard's toolkit
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.nf
.Nm Ar subcommand Op Ar options
.Nm Fl i Ar regexp Op Ar files
.Nm Fl L Ar exts
.Nm Fl l Oo Fl 0 Oc Ar exts
.Nm Fl p Op Ar files
.Nm Fl w Ar npm-modules
.Nm Fl -version
.Nm Fl -help
.fi
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a front-end to a suite of Node.js-based tools \
for maintaining JavaScript projects.
It insulates its author's chaotic workflow from the outside world,
so that another project's build-script can run
.Bd -literal -offset 4m
.Nm Cm serve Fl -mount Qo Ns \(ga Ns Nm Cm where No mocha Ns \(ga Qc Pa ./src
.Ed
.Pp
rather than require other users to install 10 MBs of NPM dependencies locally \
in order to submit a pull-request.
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh OPTIONS
.de QQ
.	ie t .Ql \\$*
.	el   .Dq \\$*
..
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.
.It Fl h , -help
Print a terse usage summary, then terminate.
.
.It Fl i , -in-place-edit Ar pattern Op Ar files
Edit
.Ar files
in-place using a
.Xr sed 1 Pf - No style
.Ar pattern
of the form
.Sm off
.QQ Sy / Ar search Sy / Ar replacement Sy / Ar flags .
.Sm on
Alias for
.Nm Cm edit .
.
.It Fl L , l , -list Oo Fl 0 Oc Ar exts
Search the current directory
.Pq and its subdirectories
for files that use one of the specified file extensions.
Results are listed as absolute paths,
one per line,
to standard output.
If either the
.Fl 0
switch or the uppercased form
.Pq Fl L
of this option is used,
the list is delimited by
.Tn ASCII Dv NUL No bytes
instead of newlines,
making it more suited for processing by scripts or piping to commands like
.Dq Nm xargs Fl 0 .
.Pp
This feature is a more concise but limited way of calling
.Nm Cm list ;
use the full subcommand for complete functionality.
.
.It Fl p , -print-path Op Ar files
Print the absolute path of a named file located within
.Nm Ap s
installation directory.
If the user specifies no
.Ar files ,
then the location of the installation directory itself is printed.
Alias for
.Nm Cm path .
.
.It Fl v , -version
Print
.Nm Ap s
version number,
then terminate.
.
.It Fl w , -where Ar npm-modules
Print the resolved location(s) of one or more
.Ar npm-modules
relative to the current working directory,
analogous to Node.js's
.QQ Sy require.resolve()
function.
Alias of
.Nm Cm where .
.
.It Ar subcommand Ar args
Execute a named
.Ar subcommand ,
which may be one of the following:
.Bl -tag -offset 6n -width typewrite
.It Cm browse
Open a web resource in a headless browser.
.
.It Cm cover
Collect, compile, and transform coverage data.
Work in progress;
considered experimental.
.
.It Cm edit
Edit text files in-place using regular expressions.
.
.It Cm lint
Lint JavaScript, TypeScript, and CoffeeScript files.
.
.It Cm list
Recursively list files in a directory,
optionally filtered by file extension or
.Xr gitignore 5
style pattern.
.
.It Cm path
Print the resolved path of a file within
.Nm Ap s
installation path.
.
.It Cm serve
Serve static files from a directory to the local network.
.
.It Cm typewrite
Generate TypeScript declarations from JSDoc annotations.
.
.It Cm where
Display the location of an installed NPM module.
Effectively the command-line equivalent of Node's
.QQ Sy require.resolve()
function.
.
.It Cm ws
Start a WebSocket server.
Complements
.Xr jg-serve 1 .
.El
.Pp
For complete documentation,
consult the man page named
.Nm Ns Pf - Ar subcommand Ns Pq 1 .
.El
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width DEBUG
.It Ev DEBUG
If non-empty,
enables the display of non-essential information about the \
running command\(cqs state.
.El
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh SUBCOMMAND FILES
Subcommands are executables stored in the
.Pa ./bin
subdirectory of
.Nm Ap s
installation location.
They can be executed without using the
.Nm
wrapper,
so both of the following invocations are equivalent:
.Bd -literal -offset 4m
.Nm Cm lint Fl -js No \&.
.Qo Pf $ Po Nm Fl p Li bin Pc Ns /lint.mjs Qc Fl -js No \&.
.Ed
.Pp
Subcommands are also useable as JavaScript libraries.
When used in this way,
their usual behaviour as executables is suppressed;
for instance,
the following script won\(cqt launch a web browser,
as would happen if the
.Xr jg-browse 1
command were executed:
.Bd -literal -offset 4m
#!/usr/bin/env node
.sp
// Prints the system's installed version of Firefox
import {find, getVersion} from "jg/bin/browse.mjs";
const path = await find("firefox");
if(!path){
	console.error("Firefox is not installed");
	process.exit(1);
}
const version = await getVersion(path);
console.log("Installed Firefox version: " + version);
.Ed
.Pp
Whether a subcommand is treated as an executable or like an ordinary library \
depends on whether its path was the script originally executed by Node.js.
Note that not every subcommand exposes a usable API this way
.Pq and by extension, is safe for importing .
Consult the appropriate man page first.
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr jg-browse 1 ,
.Xr jg-cover 1 ,
.Xr jg-edit 1 ,
.Xr jg-lint 1 ,
.Xr jg-list 1 ,
.Xr jg-path 1 ,
.Xr jg-serve 1 ,
.Xr jg-typewrite 1 ,
.Xr jg-where 1 ,
.Xr jg-ws 1 ,
.Xr node 1
.
.\"=============================================================================
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Copyright \(co 2017\(en2026
.An John Gardner Aq Mt gardnerjohng@gmail.com .
Freely released under the
.Lk http://opensource.org/licenses/ISC "ISC license" .
